So now that we've taken
a shot at visualizing
the printResults method,
let's go take a closer look
at its implementation,
which admittedly
isn't all that much different
from the visualization.
But it will give us a chance
to focus on some of the details
that we glossed over
when we were just
looking at what the results were
and visualizing those results.
This particular lesson will
showcase a few other things.
It once again showcases
collect and groupingBy,
which we already talked about.
And it also illustrates
the mapTo Int
intermediate operation as well.
So let's take a look
at the implementation.
Here is printResults.
As you can see, the
purpose of this method
is to present and print the
results of whatever word
search returned.
It's passed in a list of
results as the parameters,
list of search results.
So of course, the very first
thing we're going to do
is we're going to convert
the list of search results
into a stream of search results
by using the StreamFactory
method.
Then we go ahead and
call collect immediately.
And that collects this
stream of search results
into a map with
the word as the key
and the list of
indices as the value.
Now, in this
particular case, we're
going to make a
so-called LinkedHashMap.
And a LinkedHashMap is a
hash map that uses hashing.
But it stores the contents,
or its internal data structure
is arranged in such a way
that it keeps a linked
structure internally that, when
iterating through the hash map,
will keep track of
the insertion order.
So if you come
back later, and you
want to iterate through
the LinkedHashMap,
you'll end up iterating
through the elements
in the order in which
they were inserted,
as opposed to the order in which
they were hashed into the hash
table.
And you'll see why
we want to do that.
We want to be able to preserve
the ordering of the words
do, re, mi, fa, so,
la, ti, and so on.
We want them to be
printed out in that order.
And the third parameter
here to groupingBy
is a factor method,
which we'll look
at later when we talk about
the concept of collectors.
And this is basically
a factor method
that creates a downstream
collector that will
merge result lists together.
So this is just a way
of making the output
a little bit simpler, a
little bit more compact.
And when we talk about
non-concurrent collectors
next time or in the future,
in the not too distant future,
you will find out
how to implement
the downstream collector.
And this is in
the Java streams--
applying non-concurrent
collectors lesson.
What we have at this
point, of course,
will be a map that's
been returned by collect
and created by groupingBy,
which is the collector.
And then we go ahead and
print the matching results
in the stream using
the forEach method
and the printResults
method reference.
And once again, just keep
in the back of your head
that this is maps
for each method,
not streams for each method.
So let's take a look now at
printResult. So here's where
printResult is called.
Here's where
printResult is defined.
And printResult takes a word
and its list of indices.
And it goes ahead and prints
them to the standard output.
So as you can see here, it
takes the word and the results.
And the results come in as
a list of search results
dot result objects, which
basically keep track
of the index where the word--
all the places where the word
appeared in the input string.
So we're going to go ahead.
And we're going to
print out the result.
We're going to say the word
appeared at indices whatever.
And then we're going to say
SearchResults.printResults
giving the results.
So that'll go ahead
and print the results
in a nice, formatted way.
And then the last
thing we're going to do
is we're going to call this
method called computeMax.
And this is going to,
just for kicks, just
to illustrate a few
other streams features,
it's going to go ahead and
take that list of results.
And it's going to find out
the maximum indices or index
value in that list.
So let's go ahead
and take a look
at how computeMax
is implemented.
And this will show off a
few other interesting things
in Java Streams and other
related Java 8 classes.
So computeMax is going to
take a list of search results
result objects and convert
that list of results
into a stream of results.
So now, we have a stream
of result objects,
which are reference types.
So what we want to do is
we want to go ahead and use
the mapToInt intermediate
operation, which
will be passed the search
results that result colon colon
getIndex method reference.
And what that will
do is that will
go into the result
object that's being
passed as a stream element.
And it will extract out
the index corresponding
to the int primitive.
So mapToInt will
then end up creating
a stream of int primitives
corresponding to the indices
where the search results
found relative to the word
that we were looking up.
What we do then is we take
that stream of int primitives.
And we call the map--
the max method.
Not the map method,
And the max method
is the method as you
might expect that's
going to return
a maximum element
if there's actually
contents in the stream.
Or if the stream for
some reason was empty,
then it's going to return
something called an optional.
And more specifically,
it's going
to return a so-called
empty optional.
So what max returns is it
returns an optional int.
And the reason it needs
to return an optional int
is it might be the
case that there's
nothing in the
stream in which case
we don't want to try to compute
the max of something that
didn't exist.
So what max gives back
is an optional int,
and then we call
the orElse method,
which is the method defined
on the optional class.
Optional was a class
that was added in Java 8.
And of course, it's still
in the later versions too.
And it basically
allows you to get
rid of checking for
null references you
don't have to worry about
no references anymore
if you use options.
So in this case, if there is an
actual value that max returned,
we are going to
return that value.
Or else if the
optional was empty,
we're going to return
the value 0, which
is just an indication
that there was no max.
So this is an
interesting example
that illustrates how
to combine a bunch
of the intermediate
operations we've talked about
so far like mapToInt, along with
an interesting stream terminal
operator, which
is max, as well as
the orElse method on Optional
which will either return
a value or not.
And if it doesn't
have a value, you
can give it a value
that it'll use
if there is no value in the
optional that's returned.
So I strongly recommend you
take a look at this code.
It's really pretty simple.
But look at it and
think about it.
Look at the references
to the various methods.
And make sure you
understand how it
works because it's very cool.